
Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times

You can make this spicy pork in a 6- to 8-quart electric pressure cooker if you’re in a hurry, or in a slow cooker if you're not. In either case, you’ll get tender bits of meat covered in a chile-flavored barbecue sauce that’s just slightly sweet. (You can also make it in a stovetop pressure cooker, by trimming a few minutes off the cooking time. Stovetop pressure cookers tend to cook at a slightly higher pressure, so food cooks more quickly.) Gochujang, a pungent Korean chile paste, and gochugaru, Korean chile flakes, is available at Asian markets and specialty shops, or see the ingredient list for substitutions.

Serve the pork over rice or in slider rolls, topped with crunchy pickled sesame cucumbers and a little kimchi, if you want to spice things up. And, while you can make this from start to finish in an afternoon, you can also make this in stages a few days ahead, if that’s easier.

Featured in: Why Do Cooks Love The Instant Pot? I Bought One To Find Out. 

Korean, Cucumber, Gochujang, Mirin, Pork Shoulder, Red Pepper Flake
787 ratings
Ingredients
For the pork:

    5 garlic cloves, grated on a Microplane or minced
    2 tablespoons brown sugar or honey
    1 tablespoon Korean chile flakes (gochugaru) or other chile flakes (Maras, Aleppo or crushed red pepper)
    1 tablespoon kosher salt, more to taste
    1 teaspoon ground black pepper
    5 pounds boneless pork shoulder, cut into two or three pieces

For the sauce:

    1 tablespoon peanut oil
    4 garlic cloves, grated on a Microplane
    2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger root
    ⅓ cup gochujang (Korean chile paste) or other chile paste or sauce such as Sriracha
    ¼ cup soy sauce
    2 tablespoons ketchup
    2 tablespoons mirin
    2 tablespoons honey
    1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar
    1 teaspoon Asian fish sauce
    1 teaspoon sesame oil

For the sesame pickled cucumbers:

    6 Persian cucumbers, thinly sliced (or about 4 cups sliced cucumbers)
    1 ½ tablespoons rice vinegar
    2 teaspoons sesame oil
    2 teaspoons brown sugar
    ½ teaspoon fine sea salt
    ¼ cup thinly sliced red onion
    2 teaspoons sesame seeds

For serving:

    Cooked rice or toasted slider rolls
    Kimchi (optional)

    Nutritional Information

Email Grocery List
Preparation

    To prepare pork, combine garlic, brown sugar, chile flakes, salt and pepper. Rub marinade all over pork. If you have time, cover and refrigerate for 1 hour to up to 24 hours. Otherwise, proceed with recipe.
    Set electric pressure cooker to sauté (or use a large skillet). Add pork in batches and sear until browned all over, about 2 minutes per side. Add 3/4 cup water to pot (or to skillet to deglaze, then move to pot), cover, and set to cook for 90 minutes on high pressure. Or cook in a slow cooker for 5 to 7 hours until tender.
    While pork cooks, prepare sauce: In a small pot, warm peanut oil over medium heat. Add garlic and ginger, and sauté until fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Add remaining ingredients and bring to a simmer. Cook until thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Set sauce aside. (It can be made up to 1 week ahead and stored in the refrigerator.)
    Manually release steam. Let pork cool until you can handle it, then shred it into bite-size pieces. Pork can be made to this point up to 3 days ahead.
    While pork cools, strain liquid from bottom of pot. Pour off fat (or chill liquid, then scoop off solidified fat with a spoon). Reserve.
    Prepare cucumbers: In a small bowl, combine all ingredients except sesame seeds, and let sit, tossing one or twice, for at least 20 minutes. Stir in sesame seeds.
    When ready to serve, heat broiler. Toss pork with sauce and 1 to 2 tablespoons cooking liquid — just enough so pork is evenly coated but not wet or runny. Spread mixture on a rimmed baking sheet, and broil until crisped on top, 2 to 3 minutes; it will char in places, and that’s fine.
    Serve pork over rice or on slider rolls, with cucumbers and kimchi, if desired.

Tip

    Pork can also be prepared in a slow cooker set to 5 to 7 hours on high.

H